
    README    19 October 2004
    -------------------------

$Id: README,v 1.1 2004-10-19 16:00:40 matthew Exp $

portindex, cache-init and cache-update are a set of tools used to
generate ports INDEX or INDEX-5 files.  They work, ultimately, in a
very similar way to the standard 'make index' command, except that the
portindex tools keep a cache of the 'make describe' output from each
port, and can update that incrementally.  Once the cache has been
initialised, all of the changes made over the course of a day or a
week can be incorporated in a few seconds, and an up to date INDEX
file produced in a couple more.

The cache-update process can either take the output of running
cvsup(1) over the ports tree, or it can read cvsup(1)'s checkouts file
(usually /usr/sup/ports-all/checkouts.cvs:.) to work out which ports
have been modified or deleted recently, and so should have their
cached description updated.  Of course, it can also just read a simple
list of the port origins to re-check, which you can generate how you
will.

Quick start
-----------

Please see the POD documentation for each of the commands for details.
However, routine usage will typically be something like this:

    0) Prerequisites: you will need to have installed perl-5.8.5
       (lang/perl5.8) p5-BerkeleyDB-0.25_1 (databases/p5-BerkeleyDB
       ports) and db42-4.2.52_3 (databases/db42).  Other perl or BDB
       versions may work, but haven't been tested.

    i) Unpack the portsindex tar-ball:

        % tar -jxvf portindex-N.NN.tar.bz2

       For beta test purposes, just run the portsindex programs
       straight from the portsindex-N.NN directory.  Once I'm
       satisfied that everything is working OK, I'll declare an
       official release and submit the program as a new port which
       will install everything required neatly.

   ii) Initialise the portindex cache.  This is a slow step (slower than
       'make index') but it only needs to be done once.

        % cd portindex-N.NN
        % ./cache-init

       That creates the portsindex cache file (about 8.5Mb currently)
       and a separate table listing all of the slave ports and the
       master ports they belong to (about 72kb currently).

The for regular day to day use:

  iii) In order to generate a new index file, update the portindex
       cache with the details of any recently updated ports.  The
       recommended way to do this is by parsing the output of cvsup(1):

        % script /tmp/cvsup.out \
           sudo cvsup -g -L2 /usr/share/examples/cvsup/ports-supfile
        % cd portindex-N.NN
        % ./cache-update --input /tmp/cvsup.out

       Repeat as necessary if you run cvsup(1) several times between
       generating new INDEX files.

   iv) Print out the new INDEX file

        # ./portindex --output /usr/ports/INDEX

Steps (iii) and (iv) together should take under a minute: very much
faster than building the INDEX file from scratch each time you update
your ports.

Licensing
---------

portindex is available under the same two clause BSD license as
FreeBSD itself.

Bugs
----

This should be considered Beta code at best.  The programs have
survived testing during the flood of ports updates after the latest
pre-release freeze.  Even so, I'm sure various issues with it will
arise.

Please report any bugs to me, m.seaman@infracaninophile.co.uk with as
much detail as possible so I can try and reproduce them.  Please try
and include:

    FreeBSD version -- 'uname -a' output.
    Perl version -- 'perl -V' output 
    Transcript of session showing how the problem occurs

and anything else you think is relevant.

Author
------

    (c) Matthew Seaman 2004
        m.seaman@infracaninophile.co.uk

